- [Narrator] We have written Green Tests
for both web and client applications
yet there is still a bug.
How can you ensure that the contract between the consumer
and the producer of the API works?
To make things more interesting,
imagine your application is dependent
on 10 different services in the microservice environment.
How would you test integrations between them?
Would you deploy all microservices in the same environment
and run an end to end test?
Or would you use something like WireMock
to mock out other services?
Both come with their advantages and disadvantages.
If we deploy all microservices and perform end to end
we get the benefit of testing real communication
between services which is as close as it gets
to simulating production.
But this comes at high price
of having dedicated infrastructure with all servers,
databases, and other dependencies.
These tests can also be slow and flaky,
meaning hard to debug and not so reliable
in case data is inconsistent.
In this case,
the second approach with mocking
might sound like a better idea.
We get very fast feedback
and no infrastructure requirements.
However, we have seen that the mocking service
might not be aligned with real service,
which can give us false assurance
that everything is fine.
To solve this issue,
Spring Cloud Contract was created.
The main idea of the Spring Cloud Contract
is to give you very fast feedback
without the need to set up the whole world of microservices.
Client applications work with stubs.
However, we get certainty that the stubs that we use
in our client application consumer.
were created by the service producer recall,
but how does it all work?
Imagine that before two applications
communicate with each other,
they've formalized a way they send and receive messages.
On the producer side,
we can define contract in Java, Groovy, Kotlin and YAML
by specifying expected request and response.
Second, in order for this contract to have an effect,
Spring Cloud Maven Plugin will read contract definitions
and generate tests.
We also need to define this class for a test,
which contains all the setup information
necessary to run the tests.
For example, mocking out service layer.
Once our tests are passing and verified,
both the application and the WireMock stubs
are installed on the local
or upload it to Maven manager such as Nexus or Artifactory.
Now, let's explore how we can change the consumer side test
to reuse those stubs.
Spring Cloud Contract comes with a component
called a stub runner.
It comes with auto configure stub runner annotation,
in which we need to define artifact coordinates
such as stub storage, artifactId and port number.
Stub runner will fetch the stub from various locations
and the HTTP server stub will get started on defined ports.
Our client tests can now reference the stub server directly.
So what's the outcome of such an approach?
As consumers, we will fail fast
if they are not in sync with producer.
As producers we can see if our code changes
are not breaking the contracts we have made with our client.
This approach is called consumer-driven construct testing.